it's just resolving I came to Geneva
Switzerland 21 years ago as an Air Force
we surgical said at first I just helped
out then I started making sapphire
crystals a feed we then moved into
making replacement mineral crystals and
because I found this more interesting
it gradually became my speciality I make
the crystal entirely by hand from start
to finish I choose the appropriate form
for the case I bend this form to exactly
match the curve of the case next I give
the preliminary cut and shape to a piece
of glass which I then have to bend
live there the glass Bend slowly of its
own accord which is a problem because it
starts bending in the middle if you have
an elongated formed such as this one the
flame must always be in the center to
give an identical curve around the edge
you have to keep the burner moving and
play with the flame
your big solution I'd say the burner is
the most important stage it has to be by
hand
adjusting the flame each time the glass
is bent the flame can be very powerful
just as it can simply graze the glass
mom or Willy it's not easy to spot when
the glass is about to bend I play with
the light and even more so with the
waves that form in the glass as it bends
zonkey sit on the left
no two watches are the same I'm sent
modern watches antique watches even
museum pieces we also make crystals for
prototypes when you're aiming for an
exact shape such as a perfect square for
what looks like a square bezel you
realize the crystal doesn't fit because
the bezel has been damaged twisted or
eaten away over time so each crystal has
to be adjusted by hand to fit the bezel
visually gauging each one you really
need to use your eyes and play around
with the piece it's taken years of
experience for us to understand how this
material responds and moves and just how
we can work it
esra dark enamel take when the watch has
been put back together with its new
crystal and the hands begin to move
that's when we feel an enormous sense of
pleasure and having saved another watch
you